shortly after we posted our model m
keyboard video we received a ton of
requests to review what some have called
the model m of india the tvs gold it's a
durable value mechanical keyboard with
cherry switches sort of that's been
around for many years and can be found
all over india in banks offices or
uncle's den unfortunately it is not that
easy to get your hands on in canada so
we embarked on a months-long journey
including the help of the extended
family members of one of our viewers to
actually get one but
with changes in quality and price and
competition from china
is the tvs gold as good a deal as it
used to be
let's find out
speaking of gold private internet access
it's gold but not like expensive like
gold it's just really good like gold
go get it it protects you when you're
online
[Music]
so here i've got an original model m
from 1986 and a tvs gold from june 2018.
now
it's pretty obvious that the tvs gold
took some design cues from the model m
like the lock lights for example they
are identical
but there are some notable differences
though like this ridge for example that
you can use to hold a pencil
or even
two pencils
also the plastics themselves are pretty
different now model m's were made with
durable high quality plastics including
pbt keycaps by contrast both the keycaps
and the chassis of the tvs gold are made
of the more common abs plastic which can
get that kind of that polished shiny
look over time from the oils in your
hands so we were able to confirm this
with a quick acetone test going further
we can also see that the white lettering
is coming off even though the letter
outline remains that's because the
legend on the tvs gold is laser etched
which essentially means that it's got a
groove burned in the top of the keycap
then in this case it's filled in with a
colorant
so this kind of lettering isn't the most
durable but it's much better than pad
printing which is what most budget
keyboards use so it should last you
reasonably well even in a professional
environment
the next thing that a lot of tvs gold
users talk about is the layout
now
at first glance it looks like it has the
same north american key layout that was
pioneered by the model m
but
it actually has a bigger enter key and a
smaller backspace key which that second
one in particular can be really
frustrating if you're not used to it i
actually experienced this for myself on
steel series 7g
though with that said you shouldn't
confuse this layout with the european
iso layout which also has a tall enter
key no no this one is actually a special
layout called index script or inscript
which was ratified by the government of
india in the early 1990s and it's
designed to work with 12
different indian scripts this keyboard
by the way was also the first one ever
to have the indian rupee sign printed on
the legend though
you may find yourself needing to go
through some extra steps in order to
actually get it working now let's talk
about the typing experience
now traditionally tvs gold keyboards
shipped with cherry mx blue key switches
so these are high quality german
engineered switches with a clicky
tactile feel and a distinctive sound
that makes them beloved by typists the
world over
and the fact that a keyboard that you
could usually find for between 1700 and
2300 rupees came with real cherry
switches was almost a miracle
except for one small problem
sometime near the end of 2017. i'll try
and pop one of these off ah you're not
supposed to do it like this
yeah
get off you bastard
ah
yes here we go
wait
longhua
they own kale do they good tvs stopped
shipping golds with cherry switches with
all of the new boards getting equipped
with chinese clones made by kale
now to be clear the kale blue switches
are still mechanical and they actually
use the same design as the cherries you
might say they ripped them off so they
still have that clicky feel and if this
is your first mechanical keyboard you'll
probably love them
but it kind of raises the question in a
world where budget mechanical keyboards
are becoming more and more available
is the tvs gold still even a good deal
especially considering that the price
has moved up
rather than down into the 2700 to 3500
rupee range
i mean at that price why not get a
keyboard from cosmic bite or red gear
that has more switch options an updated
look gaming features like anti-ghosting
and windows key lock not to mention
freaking rgb so then
given the recent decrease in switch
quality and increase in price the tvs
gold is no longer the outstanding value
that it once was especially considering
the competition but
that doesn't mean that it's a bad
keyboard so if you like the vintage look
and you won't be bothered too much by
the shortened backspace key then the tvs
gold is still a classic in its own right
just be sure to order from amazon even
if it's cheaper at your local computer
shop that way you'll get a one-year
warranty to protect you from their
easily crushed boxes
speaking of easily crushed i'll be
crushed if you don't listen to this
message from pulseway pulseway is a
real-time remote monitoring and
management software that allows you to
manage and monitor go figure right in
real time from one app compatible
machines that run windows mac os or
linux you can get access to real-time
status reports system resources logged
in users network performance windows
updates and more and you can fix
problems on the go by sending commands
from any mobile device you can even
create and deploy custom scripts so that
you can automate your it tasks so try it
for free at pulseway.com at the link in
the video description so thanks for
watching guys
if you liked this video then you know
what to do hit that like button but if
it was wait if it wasn't awesome wait if
it sucked i usually say that so thanks
for watching guys if this video sucked
you can hit that button but if you liked
it hit like get subscribed or consider
checking out where to buy the stuff we
featured at the link in the video
description also down there is our merch
store which has cool shirts like the one
i'm wearing and our community forum
which you should definitely join
well no one's over here who cares